1

Unofficial Translation

(National Coat of Arms)
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
Nation Religion King
Royal Government
No. 84 S.E
SUBDECREE
On
Business Registration through Information Technology System

The Royal Government of Cambodia

- Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen the Royal Decree No . NS/RKT/0918/925, dated 06 September 2018 , on
the appointment of the Royal Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen the Royal Decree No . NS/RKT/0320/421, dated 30 March 2020 , on the
appointment and modification to the components of the Royal Government of the
Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0618/012, dated 28 June 2018,
promulgating the Law on the Organization and the Functioning of the Council of
Ministers;
- Having seen t he Royal Decree No. NS/RKM/0508/016, dated 13 May 2008,
promulgating the Law on Public Financial System;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0297/03, dated 24 February 1997,
promulgating the Law on Taxation;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0303/010 , dated 3 1 March 2003,
promulgating the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Taxation;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM /0695/04, dated 26 June 1995 ,
promulgating the Law on Commercial Regulations and Commercial Register;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. N S/RKM/0605/19, dated 19 June 2005,
promulgating the Law on Commercial Enterprise;

2

- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0397/01, dated 13 March 1997,
promulgating the Labour Law;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. 03/NS/94, dated 05 August 1994 , promulgating the
Law on Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0303/009 , dated 24 March 2003 ,
promulgating the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Investment of the Kingdom
of Cambodia;
- Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/1119 /071, dat ed 02 November 2019 ,
promulgating the Law on E-Commerce;
- As required by the Royal Government;

Hereby decides
CHAPTER 1
General Provisions

Article 1
The objective of this subdecree is to facilitate and create a good environment for
business registration through an information technology system, in order to improve business
environment and attract investment in the Kingdom of Cambodia.

Article 2
This subdecree aims to set the procedures , requirements and approval of business
registration through an information technology system.

Article 3
This subdec ree extends its application to the business registration through an
information technology system in the Kingdom of Cambodia , in accordance with applicable
laws and regulations, including:
- Business incorporation at the Ministry of Commerce,
- Tax registration at the General Department of Taxation of the Ministry of Econom y
and Finance,
- Notification of the enterprise opening to the Ministry of Labour and Vocational
Training,

3

- Qualified investment project (QIP) registration at the Council for the Development of
Cambodia.

Article 4
The definitions of key vocabularies used in this subdecree are given in the glossary in
the annex to this subdecree.

CHAPTER 2
Business Registration Procedures and
Authentication of Information and Attachments

Article 5
Applicants must fill out information and upload attachments in electronic format
in accordance with all requirements set forth in the registration website:
https://www.registrationservices.gov.kh.
Applicants may give the rights to representatives to register the businesses through the
information technology system, in the name of the applicants , by submitting the Power of
Attorney and/or relevant documents in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Article 6
Information and attachments , completed by the applicants for business registration
and to be deposited at competent ministries/institutions in electronic form at, must be
transferred to competent ministries/institutions in accordance w ith Chapter 3 of this
subdecree through the Cambodia Data Exchange (CamDX) as a basis for examination and
approval of business registration.
The competent ministries/institutions must verify the authentication of the
information and attachments in a ccordance with the authority of each ministry /institution,
within the timeframe specified in Chapter 3 of this subd ecree in compliance with this
subdecree and applicable laws and regulations.
In case the information and attachments are incorrect and/or incomplete, the
competent ministries/institutions must inform the applicants for correction or further
completion. The competent ministries/institutions must issue a certificate or credential within
the timeframe specified in Chapter 3 of this subd ecree as accounted from the date that the
applicants finish the correction or completion.

4

Article 7
Fees related to the business registration shall be determined by joint Prakases between
ministers of relevant ministries and the Minister of Economy and Finance or other legal
documents. These fees will not be refunded to the applicants even in the event of the
registration application being rejected.

CHAPTER 3
Issuance, Suspension and Withdrawal of Certificates and Credentials
by Competent Ministries/Institutions through the Registration Website
PART 1
Issuance of Certificates and Credentials

Article 8
Within at most 3 (three) working days after receiving the registration application, the
Ministry of Commerce must verify the authentication of the information and attachments that
have been completed correctly and must issue the certificate of incorporation . The certificate
of incorporation must be issue d in digital format that can be printed through the registration
website for official uses.

Article 9
Within at most 4 (four) working days after the approval of the business incorporation
by the Ministry of Commerce, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations on
taxation, the General Department of Taxation of the Ministry of Eco nomy and Finance must
verify the authentication of the information and attachments and must issue tax registration in
digital format that can be printed through the registration website for official uses , including
patent certificate , certificate o f tax re gistration (value added t ax-VAT), tax registration
identification card and notification on tax obligation.
To encourage and promote tax registration , all taxpayers must pay only 50 (fifty)
percent of the patent tax , as specified in applicable laws and regulations , for the year of
business registration. The patent tax payment will not be refunded to the applicants even in
the event of the registration application being rejected.
Within 15 (fifteen) working days after receiving the tax registration in digital format,
the applicants must provide bank account information to the General Department of Taxation.
In case there is failure to provide the information, the tax registration as stated in the first
paragraph above will be withdrawn automatically.

5

Article 10
Following the approval of business incorporation and tax registration, the Ministry of
Labour and Vocational Training must review and accept the notification of enterprise
opening, by providing an administrative registration number for the acceptation of the
notification through the registration website within 1 (one) working day, in accordance with
applicable laws and regulations. In case that the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training
does not review and provide an administrative regis tration number within 1 (one) working
day, it is considered that the notification of enterprise opening has been reviewed and
accepted by the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training automatically.
The acceptation of the notification of enterprise opening in digital form can be printed
for official uses , after all requirements are completed correctly through the registration
website in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Article 11
Within at mo st 20 (twenty) working days after receiving the application and if the
registered project is not included in the negative list, the Council for the Development of
Cambodia must verify the authentication of the information and attachments that have been
completed correctly and must issue the registration certificate in digital form that can be
printed through the registration website for official uses.

Article 12
Certificates and/or credentials, which are generated in digital form , can be
authenticated by the enterprise identification number through the registration website or at the
competent ministries/institutions.

Article 13
All relevant ministries/institutions shall issue Prakases or Guideline s in order to
ensure the efficiency of the implementation of this subdecree in accordance with the authority
of each ministry/institution.

PART 2
Suspension or Withdrawal of Certificates and credentials

Article 14
The competent ministries/institutions may suspend or withdraw the certificate s and
credentials upon the occurrence of any of the following conditions that the applicants:

6

1. do not comply or continue to comply with the requirements of the certificate s and
credentials set forth in this subdecree,
2. provide false information or use fraudulent documents,
3. breach applicable laws and regulations.
The procedures for suspension and withdraw al of certificates and credential s must
comply with this subdecree and applicable laws and regulations.

CHAPTER 4
Validation of Registration Information, Code of Ethics, and Confidentiality

Article 15
Applicants must guarantee in electronic format that the information and attachments
submitted through the registration website are accurate and non -fraudulent. In case that the
information and attachments are inaccurate or fraudulent, the competent ministries/institutions
shall take legal action in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Article 16
The registration representatives must obey the code of ethics as follows:
1. have integrity and honesty in doing business,
2. provide professional services diligently and dedicatedly,
3. carry out the tasks by prioritizing the best interests of the clients,
4. inform the clients of all necessary information,
5. avoid having conflicts of interest with the clients or shall take appropriate measures to
protect the interests of the client s and shall notify the client s in advance in case there
is any conflict of interest.
The registration representatives must keep confidential and must not expose any
information or attachment for business registr ation as determined in this sub decree to any
third party , unless required by the law, court ruling, competent ministries /institutions,
competent authority or written agreement with the clients.

Article 17
Officials, whose works are related to the business registration through an information
technology system, shall strictly adhere to the code of ethic s determined by competent
ministries/institutions and in accordance with the Common Statute of Civil Servants as well
as applicable laws and regulations. These relevant officials must keep confidential and must
not expose any information or attachment as determined in this subdecree to any third party ,
unless required by the law, court ruling, competent ministries /institutions, competent

7

authority, written agreement among relevant ministries/institutions, or written agreement with
the clients or registration representatives.
Competent ministries/ institutions must have procedures , means and internal
mechanism to keep confidential all information and attachments of the applicants.
Competent ministries/institutions may issue a joint P rakas to control information and
attachments as determined in this sub decree in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations.

CHAPTER 5
Final Provisions

Article 18
Any provisions contrary to this subdecree shall be abrogated.

Article 19
The Minister of the Council of ministers, the Minister of Economy and Finance, The
Minister of Labo ur and Vocational Training, th e Minister of Commerce, ministers of all
relevant ministries and heads of all relevant institutions shall implement this subdecree within
their respective functions commencing from the date of signature.

Phnom Penh Capital, June 10, 2020
Prime Minister

Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen

CC:
- Ministry of Royal Palace
- Secretariat General of the Constitutional Council
- Secretariat General of the Senate
- Secretariat General of the National Assembly
- Cabinet of Samdech Techo Prime Minister
- Cabinet of Samdech, His/Her Excellency Deputy Prime Minister
- As stipulated in Article 19
- Royal Gazette
- Records-Archive

8

ANNEX
Subdecree No. 84 S.E On Business Registration through Information Technology System
Dated June 10, 2020

Glossary

1. Applicants refer to natural or legal persons who apply for business incorporation ,
tax registration, acceptation of the notification of enterprise opening and qualified investment
project by completing procedures and requirements set forth this sub decree as well as
applicable laws and regulations.

2. Registration Representatives refer to persons who are authorized by competent
ministries/institutions and receive the rights from the applicants t o apply for business
incorporation, tax registration , acceptation of the notification of enterprise opening and
qualified investment project by completing procedures and requirements set forth this
subdecree as well as applicable laws and regulations.

3. Business Registration refers to the business registration through the registration
website in accordance with appl icable laws and regulations , in order to obtain the following
certificates and credentials in digital format:
- Certificate of incorporation from the Ministry of Commerce,
- Tax registration from the General Department of Taxation of the Minstry of Economy
and Finance,
- Acceptation of the notification of enterprise opening by the Ministry of Labour and
Vocational Training,
- Qualified investment project (QIP) registration from the Council for the Development
of Cambodia.

4. Registration Website refers to a joint website for business registration through the
information technology system in electronic format as set forth in this subdecree.

5. Enterprise Identification Number refers to a number identifying the enterprise,
issued automatically in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

6. Cambodia Data Exchange (CamDX) refers to an information technology platform
of the Royal Government of Cambodia for exchanging data safely between information
technology systems of ministries/institutions with specific mec hanisms through the internet
or various digital connections, aiming at connecting digital governance and digital economy.

9

7. Electronic Format refers to information or data that can be processed, modified
and shared between information technology systems.

8. Documents in digital f ormat refer to documents in Portable Document Format
(PDF) or as images, used for references or attachment s scanned or extracted from hard
documents or for PDF documents or images that can be printed for official uses.

9. Credentials refers to the following digital specification:
- Patent certificate and/or certificate of tax registration by the General Department of
Taxation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
- Acceptation of the notification of enterprise opening by the Ministr y of Labo ur and
Vocational Training.
